ref(sentry apps): Reorganize UI components info (#4994)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/docs/product/integrations/integration-platform/ui-components/alert-rule-action.mdx

---
title: Alert Rule Action
sidebar_order: 3

> description: "Learn about the alert rule action UI component."

Reviewer: > I think this can be a bit spicier 🌶️
> 
> > Learn how to set up Alert Rule Actions in the Sentry UI to get custom information directly from your users with any of their triggered alerts.
> 
> or something like that. cc @imatwawana

That sentence is pretty long and I'm not sure I understand it. When you say "any of their triggered alerts" do you mean that the our customer's user has taken an action that triggers an alert set up by our customer? Or something else?

> description: "Learn about the alert rule action UI component."

Author: @imatwawana I was actually curious if you knew where this even shows up, I don't see it on the page anywhere so I didn't bother spending time on them.

> description: "Learn about the alert rule action UI component."

Reviewer: > @imatwawana I was actually curious if you knew where this even shows up, I don't see it on the page anywhere so I didn't bother spending time on them.

It's only in the metadata of the page, so search engines will pick it up, but it's not visible when you're just reading the docs.

> description: "Learn about the alert rule action UI component."

Author: @imatwawana to follow up and put words in @leeandher 's mouth: 

"any of their triggered alerts" means the user's alerts that have the developer's service selected as an alert rule action which have fired.

> description: "Learn about the alert rule action UI component."

Author: Oh also, since it's just metadata how much effort would you suggest we put into these generally? Treat it as if it were on the page or just slam something in there with key words?

> description: "Learn about the alert rule action UI component."

Reviewer: > @imatwawana to follow up and put words in @leeandher 's mouth:
> 
> "any of their triggered alerts" means the user's alerts that have the developer's service selected as an alert rule action which have fired.

That is an incredible mouthful, so I'd say let's leave that part out. And to answer your other question, I wouldn't spend a ton of time on them. They should make sense to humans, but as long as they're fundamentally accurate, we're good.

---

> The Alert Rule Action component allows the developer to get parameters to define routing or configuration in alert rules for their service. When alert rules are triggered for a user, the configured service will receive [Issue Alert](/product/integrations/integration-platform/webhooks/#issue-alerts) and [Metric Alert](/product/integrations/integration-platform/webhooks/#metric-alerts) webhook events with the specified settings for that service to further route the alert.

Author: No particular reason for the 3rd person, I think just a side effect of lots of people writing and editing these over the years. I _think_ this should be "get" because the user configures (sets) their settings  in the alert rule UI component, and the developer's services receives (gets) that data and can route based on it.

![Example of an alert rule UI component.](alert-rule-component-action-example.png)

![Example of an alert rule settings modal.](alert-rule-component-modal-example.png)

## Schema

> ```javascript

Reviewer 2: can we change this to `json`, the formatting is prettier :)

    "description": <String>
  }
}
```

## Attributes

- `title` - (Required) The title shown in the UI component.
- `uri` - (Required) Sentry will make a POST request to the URI when the User submits the form. If the services fails to process the request (status code >= 400), this component will bubble up the error to the User with the provided response text.
- `required_fields` - (Required) List of [FormField](/product/integrations/integration-platform/ui-components/formfield) components the User is required to complete.
- `optional_fields` - (Optional) List of [FormField](/product/integrations/integration-platform/ui-components/formfield) components the User may complete.
- `description` - (Optional) Text that will be displayed above the form. Limited to 140 characters.

## Example

```json

"elements": [
  {
    "type": "alert-rule-action",
    "title": "Send Alerts to",
    "settings": {
      "type": "alert-rule-settings",
      "uri": "/sentry/alert-rule",
      "required_fields": [
        {
          "type": "text",
          "label": "Channel",
          "name": "channel"
        }
      ]
    }
  }
]
```

## Issue Alert Request Format

> When an issue alert fires, your service will need to read the settings from the alert payload. The `settings` are in `data.issue_alert.settings`. See the full [Issue Alert webhook documentation](/product/integrations/integration-platform/webhooks/#issue-alerts) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an issue alert fires, your service will need to read the settings from the alert payload. The `settings` are in `data.issue_alert.settings`. Check out the full [Issue Alert webhook documentation](/product/integrations/integration-platform/webhooks/#issue-alerts) for more information.
```

### Payload

> ```

Reviewer 2: This should also be `json`, and more generally, in markdown it just dumps whatever you have written into the page, and most editors don't have smart configs for editing markdown to prettify it before hand, so you gotta manually fix spacing issues and stuff. 

This is technically fine spacing-wise, but I'd prefer 2-space indents since it's so heavily nested. IMO 2-space indents are way better than 4-space for docs since it's more readible when the window is thinner or half-screened.

{
  ...
  "data": {
    ...
    "issue_alert": {
      ...
      "settings": [
        {
          "name": "title",
          "value": "Ticket Title"
        },
        {
          "name": "description",
          "value": "Ticket Description"
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

## Metric Alert Request Format

> When a metric alert fires, your service will need to read the settings from the alert payload. The `settings` in this example are nested in `data.metric_alert.alert_rule.triggers[1].actions[0].settings`. You will have to identify which trigger and action contains your settings based on the webhook type, so `triggers[1]` and `actions[0]` may not be accurate in your case. See the full [Metric Alert webhook documentation](/product/integrations/integration-platform/webhooks/#metric-alerts) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a metric alert fires, your service will need to read the settings from the alert payload. The `settings` in this example are nested in `data.metric_alert.alert_rule.triggers[1].actions[0].settings`. You will have to identify which trigger and action contains your settings based on the webhook type, so `triggers[1]` and `actions[0]` may not be accurate in your case. Check out the full [Metric Alert webhook documentation](/product/integrations/integration-platform/webhooks/#metric-alerts) for more information.
```

> When a metric alert fires, your service will need to read the settings from the alert payload. The `settings` in this example are nested in `data.metric_alert.alert_rule.triggers[1].actions[0].settings`. There may be multiple `actions` and the index may not be 0 in your case. See the full [Metric Alert webhook documentation](/product/integrations/integration-platform/webhooks/#metric-alerts) for more information.

Reviewer 2: > There may be multiple `actions` and the index may not be 0 in your case.

I think it might be more correct to say you'll have to identify which trigger and action contains your settings based on the webhook type, so `triggers[1]` and `actions[0]` may not be accurate in your case.

### Payload

```json

> {

Reviewer 2: See above about spacing :+1:

    ...
    “metric_alert”: {
      ...
      “alert_rule”: {
        ...
        “triggers”: [
          ...
          {
            ...
            “actions”: [
              {
                ...
                “settings”: [
                  {
                    “name”: “title”,
                    “value”: “Critical Trigger”
                  },
                  {
                    “name”: “description”,
                    “value”: “Critical Description”
                  }
                ],

              }
            ]
          },
        ],

      },
    },
  },
}
```

### Alert Rule Creation Error Handling

> If a user setting up an alert rule action with your app tries to save an incorrect or malformed configuration, you can surface the errors to them directly in Sentry by responding to the POST request with a JSON response in this shape:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a user setting up an alert rule action with your app tries to save an incorrect or malformed configuration, you can surface the errors to them directly in [sentry.io](https://sentry.io) by responding to the POST request with a JSON response in this shape:
```

> When surfacing errors, we need to receive a JSON response with this shape:

Reviewer 2: I think you could add a little bit more:

> If a user setting up an alert rule action with your app tries to save an incorrect/malformed configuration, you can surface the errors to them directly in Sentry by responding to the POST request with a JSON response in this shape:

```javascript
{message: string}
```

> If data is not received as expected, nothing will be shown.

Reviewer 2: This isn't true, if they return an error code (40x, 50x) We show a generic error message, you can probably just mention that instead.

---
title: Alert Rule Action
sidebar_order: 2
description: "Learn about the alert rule action UI component."
---

> The alert rule action component allows you to get parameters to define routing or configuration in alert rules for your service. When alert rules are triggered for a user, the configured service will receive [issue alert](/product/integrations/integration-platform/webhooks/#issue-alerts) and [metric alert](/product/integrations/integration-platform/webhooks/#metric-alerts) webhook events, with the specified settings for that service, to further route the alert.

Reviewer: We try to avoid the word "get" in this way in docs, but I'm not sure of a good replacement. I've made a suggestion below: 

```suggestion
The alert rule action component gives you access to parameters to define routing or configuration in alert rules for your service. When alert rules are triggered for a user, the configured service will receive [issue alert](/product/integrations/integration-platform/webhooks/#issue-alerts) and [metric alert](/product/integrations/integration-platform/webhooks/#metric-alerts) webhook events, with the specified settings for that service, to further route the alert.
```

- `description` - (Optional) Text that will be displayed above the form. Limited to 140 characters.

## Example

```json {filename:schema.json}
{
  "elements": [
    {
      "type": "alert-rule-action",
      "title": "Create a Rekall Inc task",
      "settings": {
        "type": "alert-rule-settings",
        "uri": "/sentry/alert-rule",
        "required_fields": [
          {
            "type": "select",
            "label": "Project",
            "name": "project",
            "options": [["1", "cornflakes"]]
          },
          {
            "type": "select",
            "label": "Assignee",
            "name": "assignee",
            "url": "/sentry/alert-rule/options/users/"
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

## Issue Alert Request Format

When an issue alert fires, your service will need to read the settings from the alert payload. The `settings` are in `data.issue_alert.settings`. Check out the full [Issue Alert webhook documentation](/product/integrations/integration-platform/webhooks/#issue-alerts) for more information.

> ### Payload

Reviewer 2: I don't think we need this heading, they seem odd on the sidebar and don't have any text underneath.

```json
{
  ...
  "data": {
    ...
    "issue_alert": {
      ...
      "settings": [
        {
          "name": "title",
          "value": "Ticket Title"
        },
        {
          "name": "description",
          "value": "Ticket Description"
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

## Metric Alert Request Format

When a metric alert fires, your service will need to read the settings from the alert payload. The `settings` in this example are nested in `data.metric_alert.alert_rule.triggers[1].actions[0].settings`. You will have to identify which trigger and action contains your settings based on the webhook type, so `triggers[1]` and `actions[0]` may not be accurate in your case. Check out the full [Metric Alert webhook documentation](/product/integrations/integration-platform/webhooks/#metric-alerts) for more information.

> ### Payload

Reviewer 2: See above, no need for a payload heading.

```json
{
  “data”: {
    ...
    “metric_alert”: {
      ...
      “alert_rule”: {
        ...
        “triggers”: [
          ...
          {
            ...
            “actions”: [
              {
                ...
                “settings”: [
                  {
                    “name”: “title”,
                    “value”: “Critical Trigger”
                  },
                  {
                    “name”: “description”,
                    “value”: “Critical Description”
                  }
                ],

              }
            ]
          },
        ],

      },
    },
  },

> }

Reviewer 2: So there's still some formatting issues here, you can tell since the code block is colourless on the preview, plus the diff on GitHub shows some helpful red highlighting
- The double quotes are probably not actual double-quotes, but 'opening double quotes' and 'closing double quotes"
- JSON hates trailing commas
- The newlines on L132 and L137 can be removed

Reviewer 2: Also a SUPER nit, there should be a `...` above `"data"`

```

> ### Alert Rule Creation Error Handling

Reviewer 2: This isn't just for creation, it also affects updates. You can probably just change the heading to `Surfacing Errors`.
Also make sure its an h2 so it's not nested under the Metric Alert Request Format heading

Reviewer 2: Also looking at this again, do you mind adding a sentence letting them know that if they do respond with an error code, we don't let the user save the alert rule? Just so they know that we don't show the error and save it anyway.

If a user setting up an alert rule action with your app tries to save an incorrect or malformed configuration, you can surface the errors to them directly in [sentry.io](https://sentry.io) by responding to the POST request with a JSON response in this shape:

```json

> {message: string}

Reviewer 2: JSON formatting nit again! 
- `message` should be in double quotes
- instead of 'string' you could put an example like "Channel no longer exists!"  or something, but if you want to keep 'string', I'd replace it with `<String>` like we have used above.
